title: DC Google Developer Group - Google + Firebase
date: 2015-03-19
categories: [meetup, javascript]
tags: [data]
description: The March DC Google Developer Group on Firebase, presented by David East at K&L Gates.


##Intro to [Firebase][1]
*The realtime backend for your app.*<br>
*Presented by David East @_davideast*

David introduced the audience to Firebase by way of thinking through Google documents. The items behind Google docs that the developers tried to optimize included:

* Speed
* Security
* Easy authentication
* Free hosting

Further, what the user expects and what Firebase provides is:

* Speed
* Ability to work offline
* Multi-platform experience
* Simple authentication (e.g. login with Facebook)

You can write an app entirely in Javascript with Firebase and never
worry about a backened. Firebase is cloud hosted, you set up an account
and you have Firebase. It is a NoSQL data-store connected through a
RESTful object.

Whenever data is updated in Firebase it's sent down to the client in
real-time. It persists the data **and** sends it down to all listening
clients.

{% highlight javascript %}
var ref = new Firebase([put URL from Firebase here/realtime]);
ref.set('text');
{% endhighlight %}

Call the set method on the reference that was just created and the
'text' data has been saved to the backend. You can find more of the example online at the Firebase site, but concisely, this is not difficult to set up and run. 

###Syncing

Firebase allows for easy syncing of data.

{% highlight javascript %}
var label = document.getElementById('label');
var ref = new.Firebase([see above]);
ref.on('value', function(snap) {
  label.innerText = snap.val();
});
{% endhighlight %}
A snapshot is returned. Returning data is as easy as calling snap.val().

###Authentication

Easily authenticate with Google (and since Firebase was purchased by Google this should remain easy for it's remaining lifespan).

###Bindings

Easily binds together with javascript frameworks:
React, Ember, Angular, Backbone, etc.

Firebase app also allows for easy deployment, organization, and
monirtoring via the command line. Used by GoToMeeting, Warby Parker,
CBS. It is definitely worth considering for real-time apps 

[1]: https://www.firebase.com/
